#summary How to run a Switched On Virtual Machine

= Introduction =
The easiest way to try out and develop the Switched On system is to run a Switched On "virtual machine" on your computer.  This is like running a pre-packaged computer inside your computer.  You won't even have to modify your own computer (host machine) except to install the engine (a program called VMWare Server) for running the "Switched On" computer (known as a Virtual Machine).

This "how to" will assume you are using a Windows PC.  Linux users have to follow a few more steps to install the virtual machine that are not detailed here, though ask Richard if you need help.


= Install VWare Server 1 =

Obtain the VMWare Software from the External HD floating around.

Randomly choose one of the following licence keys:

92MD8-YAU0T-1C14L-480L8

9AN69-Y0F89-191D2-404L1

98M4D-Y2CAD-19MFQ-4059D

9AMFX-YAU08-1CN6K-42HKR

98MFD-Y8Y0D-11562-404H5



= Install VMWare Server 2 (not recommended at the Developer Weekend) =
Download VMWare Server from the following page:

http://www.vmware.com/products/server/
(or ask for the CD at the Developer Weekend)

You will have to register to get a licence key.  The licence key will be on a line similar to the following: 

VMware Server 2 for Windows 	AA505-FHY0V-V32CQ-4TKUX


Execute the file you have just downloaded (VMware-server-2.???.exe) and follow the instructions to install it.


= Install the Switched On Virtual Machine (computer) =

Obtain the Virtual Machine(s) from the External HD floating around.