#summary Info: Switched On Developer weekend - Fleet (or near) 3-4th October '09

= Introduction =

The Switched On October 2009 weekend is to be combined with the Christian IT Professionals gathering to make for a bonanza, action-packed, full-of-meaningful, fantastically fun weekend that will change the world for many people!

= The Workpackages =
These will be focused and, hopefully, realistic.  We did our blue-sky thinking at the last event.  Now we're churning out the goods!
  # Source code control & system installation scripts - led by Mr Adam!
  # Finishing the system to charge for use of the computers & auto switch off after time-out  (PHP with agents on MS, Linux and Thin client systems) - Edward R, a Linux scripter & some PHP help needed!  Edward B has now offered help here!  Completing the valiant work done last time by The Petes and Edward.
  # Moodle inline video capability - Phil Allnutt to complete (and get in the Moodle code-base upstream with Adam's help?)
  # "Meta-Moodle Course" Creating the foundation and some example mini tutorials for a short training course in moodle on how to create the video part of moodle training courses. Led by Tim (cos of his vast experience).  Could Farayi help?
  # Moodle appearance changes - implementation of stuff Neil created last time, with some negotiation over implementation effort/benefit/maintainability as Moodle morphs in coming releases.  PHP/Web developers needed!
  # Further Linux wizardry from Pete Smit?

The workpackage sections on this site will be updated over the next few weeks to define these tasks more tightly (Thanks to Adam for all his hard work on this lot)


= Extra skills still needed =
In addition to those folks' skills, who've said they're coming, we still need
  * PHP coming out of our ears
  * Trainers/educationalists
  * More media folks?
  * Some Linux experience
  * People who love life and Jesus!

= People who say they're coming =
  * Edward R
  * Tim F
  * Edward B
  * Phil A
  * Neil R
  * Adam B
  * Farayi U
  * Richard N

= Draft agenda =
== Sat 3rd Oct ==
  * 10am arrive and coffee 
  * 10:30am Intro tasks - this time they'll be focused and well-specified cos we need results!!
  * 11:30 Work and work, with some breaks when we feel like lunch, dinner, drinks etc. Adam on hand to ensure your works get checked-in to the great big system in the clouds (we're under grace though ;-)
  * Sometime - stop for sleep

== Sun 4th Oct ==
  * 10.00am - Fleet Family Church meeting (Let's be a blessing!)
  * Pub Lunch (or we could hit the all-you-can-eat buffets on Fleet High Street!)
  * 2 till whenever - back at it for the daring of heart!  With lots of fun, and checking-in!
  * Feel satisfied with our works!
  * Go back to work for a rest!

= Accommodation =
Due to a clash with the radiator fitters, each one can go home (or to a Travelodge) in peace.  I suspect some lifts can be arranged for those who are wheely-challenged.

The following seems a good place to stay - recommended by Phil and endorsed by Edward:
at this location, and includes suggested ways to book... might be possible for £37
http://www.trivago.co.uk/fleet-39396/hotel/days-inn-fleet-m3-445691

= Location of the Office =
Qubix International Limited<br>
5 High Street<br>
Knaphill<br>
Woking<br>
Surrey<br>
GU21 2PG<br>

Google Maps: http://maps.google.com/maps?q=england%2C%20GU21%202PG<br>
Directions: http://www.qubix-uk.com/contact-us