#summary Info: Switched On Developer weekend - Fleet (or near) 3-4th October '09

= Introduction =

The Switched On October 2010 is going to be another action-packed, fun-filled, mega-meaningful weekend!

= The Workpackages =
These will be focused and, hopefully, realistic.  We did our blue-sky thinking at the last event.  Now we're churning out the goods!
  # Finishing the system to charge for use of the computers & auto switch off after time-out  (PHP with agents on MS, Linux and Thin client systems) - Peter Smit, Farayi U, Edward R, Eva T.
  # Making things look pretty - Phil Allnutt, Neil R
  # Moodle RPM - Ed B and Peter T
  # Image/Video upload for the sponsorship system - Peter Smit
  # Nagios Monitoring - Tom
  # Various expert things - Ben F

= People who say they're coming =
  * Peter Smit! - making it over from Finland!!!
  * Edward R
  * Edward B
  * Phil A
  * Neil R
  * Farayi U
  * Richard N
  * Eva T?
  * Tom W?
  * Ben F?

= Can't make it this time:
  * Tim F - In between mad busy things
  * Adam B - will be plate throwing at a Greek wedding...
  

= Draft agenda =
== Sat 15th May ==
  * 10am arrive and coffee 
  * 10:30am Intro tasks - this time they'll be focused and well-specified cos we need results!!
  * 11:30 Work and work, with some breaks when we feel like lunch, dinner, drinks etc.  
  * Unless people lead us astray for another Indian for lunch!!
  * Sometime - stop for sleep

== Sun 16th May ==
  * 10.00am - Optional Fleet Family Church meeting (Let's be a blessing!)
  * Grab a takeaway and head to the office for some final techy tenacity and fun.
  * 4pm, feel satisfied with our works and head home
  * Go back to work for a rest!

= Accommodation =
Lodge of some kind as below.  If you're broke let me know and we'll see what can be done!
I suspect some lifts can be arranged for those who are wheely-challenged.

The following seems a good place to stay - recommended by Phil and endorsed by Edward:
at this location, and includes suggested ways to book... might be possible for £37
http://www.trivago.co.uk/fleet-39396/hotel/days-inn-fleet-m3-445691

= Location of the Office =
Qubix International Limited<br>
5 High Street<br>
Knaphill<br>
Woking<br>
Surrey<br>
GU21 2PG<br>

There should be enough parking at the office but if not then there's free parking 2 mins down the road.

Google Maps: http://maps.google.com/maps?q=england%2C%20GU21%202PG<br>
Directions: http://www.qubix-uk.com/contact-us