#summary Intro and instructions on how to use the Switched On source code store

= Introduction =

The source code repository is where we store and share our work.  Here are some basic instructions to get you started and point you to further guidance.

= Details =
The repository uses an application called Subversion to store the code, keep a history of all versions of the code, and enable developers to work together and merge their changes on the same code base.

If you have not used Subversion before, please read a manual, such as the help manual for TortoiseSVN (see below) to understand the basic concepts before starting.  The TortoiseSVN manual is a good clear read.  Someone more experienced in the Switched On team could take you through setting it up and your first couple of checkins/outs.

The two main ways of interacting with the subversion repository are through:
 # The command line, for the more experienced.  To get started, see http://code.google.com/p/so-class2/source/checkout
 # A GUI interface.  The recommended way for Windows users is TortoiseSVN, at http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/
   * You will use the path: https://so-class2.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ so-class2 --username _your username_
   * Note the "S" in httpS is essential.  Otherwise you will waste lots of time!
   * You will need the password at: http://code.google.com/hosting/settings
   * The following guide may be helpful - [http://engtech.wordpress.com/2007/03/03/howto_google_code_hosting_subversion_tortoisesvn/ Getting Started with Google Code Hosting, Subversion, and TortoiseSVN without feeling like an Idiot]  If you Google you will find other good guides too.

Documentation-related deliverables to go on this wiki, are stored under a different subversion root.  See UsingSourceCodeRepository.