#summary How to use the Workpackage Wiki pages.
#sidebar TableOfContents

Go back to [Home].

At the start of the developer weekend these wiki pages reflect Richard's requirements.  These may be modified as issues arise.  Richard will modify this text if necessary.

Please *add* detail to your team's wiki page during the developer weekend, as it will be the output documentation.  Note:
 * You may add text to this wiki (click "edit this page" link above and then see "Wiki markup help on the right").  Detailed Wiki syntax is available [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax here].
 * You may create new pages under this one, but please label the wiki links using the following pattern `Workpackage_WorkpackageName_YourAdditionalDescription`.  e.g. `Workpackage_VideoAndPerformance_FlippingVideoViews`
 * You may upload document files (or any other files).  Link to them from this page.  Name them `Workpackage_WorkpackageName_YourAdditionalDescription.extension` e.g. `Workpackage_VideoAndPerformance_FlippingVideoViews.doc`

Make sure only one person from your workpackage group is updating a wiki page at a time, or you'll end up overwriting each other!  To avoid this:
 * Maintain strict control to ensure only one person edits a given page at a time, or,
 * Create one or more sub-pages if you can logically split your work into sub-areas taken on by different individuals.

= Images and other files as part of deliverables =
Put images needed on your wiki pages in svn under wiki/Workpackage_Name/image.png

Other files you may need should also be stored in the subversion under:
Workpackage_Name/suitable path

Please do this rather than putting things in the download seciont of the wiki.  You work will be preserved better if kept in subversion.