#summary Virtual private networks

#sidebar TableOfContents

Go back to [Workpackages].

= Introduction =
Read WorkpackageDocumentationInstructions

= Requirements =

== Specific questions/strategies to be addressed if time ==
Summary: Configuration of the Switched On central server and clients to enable virtual private networking for use by the distribited development team and easy access to learning centre networks for administration and support.

The following two VPNs are required:
  * A developer VPN e.g. for use during the developer weekends to enable access to each other's PCs on collaborative workpackages.  Developers will be running Windows XP, Vista and maybe flavours of Linux
  * A support VPN to be used to provide admin support to the learning centres.  Currently the Ychtus centre's main server is on SUSE Linux 10.3 64bit.  The Burmese community laptop will run Wondows Vista Home Basic.

An OpenVPN server Virtual machine will be set up on a central Switched On server which you will be given access to.  This should be made to run with minimum memory necessary in normal use.  e.g. the graphical interface will be disabled on boot up.  Access will be via SSH and tightVNC over SSH.  Richard can give instructions on how to do this.  Please provide Richard with the ports/port range that need to be accessible from the Internet.

This page and subpages should detail the steps for configuration of both the server and clients and link to config files (minus passwords/secure keys!) in the source code repository.  Please liaise with Adam B and Richard N for the directory naming conventions which have still to be developed.  All passwords/security keys must be transferred privately (not on this wiki).

It may be helpful to automate certain operations through scripts, or it may be best to just detail the steps in the wiki.

Happy coding and configuring!

= Team documentation =



----

= Workpackage Team Members =
 * Peter Smit?
 * Richard Newbould