#summary Instructions for inserting a new project into the repository.
#sidebar TableOfContents

Go back to [Workpackage_Repository The Repository]

= Introduction =

If you've been working on a new project, or a new section of a project, you will eventually want to insert it into the repository so that it can be shared with everyone and you can keep track of versions.

= Details =

== Inserting a new project with SVN on Linux ==

  * Log into [http://code.google.com/p/so-class2/source/checkout] and make a note of the username on the end of the top of the two examples _the one that has {{{https://}}} not {{{http://}}}_ (if there's only one example, you've not yet logged in).

  * Go to the folder where your main project folder is.  (eg. If your main project is a folder called {{{lessons}}} and this is in your {{{docs}}} folder, go into the {{{docs}}} folder).

  * Type {{{svn import lessons https://so-class2.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lessons -m "LESSONS: First Import"}}}  Change the message to reflect the project more accurately.

  * If you're asked for your password, you can click "googlecode.com password" on the googlecode page to get your Google Code password)

This will create a directory under your current directory called so-class2 with all the files in it.




== Inserting a new project with TortoiseSVN on Windows ==

  * Go to the folder where your main project folder is.  (eg. If your main project is a folder called {{{lessons}}} and this is in your {{{Documents}}} folder, go to the {{{Documents}}} folder).
  * Right click on the folder ({{{lessons}}} in this example) and a menu will come up
    * click the {{{TortoiseSVN}}} menu item
    * click the {{{Import...}}} menu item
      In the "URL of repository" box, type:
      {{{https://so-class2.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lessons/}}}
      Replace the word {{{lessons}}} with the actual name for your project.  Don't forget to have a {{{/}}} on the end!
    * Type in a message describing the project you are inserting
    * Click OK

  * If prompted for your username and password, enter the details you find here (you'll need to log in to google for this):
	[http://code.google.com/p/so-class2/source/checkout]


	(Click "googlecode.com password" to get your Google Code password)
