#summary A list of the workpackages that make up this project.

= Introduction =
All these workpackages should co-operate towards successfully demonstrating [TheChallege the whole scenario]!

Click on the workpackage titles for more detailed information.

== [Workpackage_VideoAndPerformance Video and Performance] ==
*Simultaneous Video Playback and Performance Monitoring & Tuning +  Video mode flipping*

 * Tom Welsh (back-end) [ just Saturday ]
 * Phil Allnutt (front-end and Adobe Premiere Integration)
 * Ben Formesyn (back-end) [ just Saturday ]
 * Edward Buckley (mainly front-end, partly back-end)
 * Tim Finch (arriving Sat night, help with Adobe Premiere Integration)

On Sat afternoon we will schedule a set of performance tests utilising all participants.

== [Workpackage_ConfigurationTools Configuration Tools] ==
 * Adam Bewsher
 * Ken Goddard

== [Workpackage_Repository The Repository] ==
 * Adam Bewsher
 * Ken Goddard

== [Workpackage_PaymentAndLogout Payment and Logout] ==
*Payment tracking and Automatic logout*

 * Edward Ramsden
 * Peter Edwards
 * Peter Thorpe

== [Workpackage_GraphicDesign Graphic Design] ==
*Graphics and layout design*

 * Neil Rogers

== [Workpackage_CourseConsultants Course Content] ==
*Produce demo video, sample course & guidelines*

 * Andy Howard - Computer Course, basic computer skills
 * Maureen Flett - Computer course?
 * Alex Flett - Business Skills course
 * Nathan Redmon - Personal Development
 * James Allen - Help the others enter things in Moodle, and generally get involved in techie aspects in the other teams as required.  Create a course if you desire!
 * Tim Finch helping Sunday

Output for each course: Outline of whole course and one lesson in detail, following the methodology principles implied in the scenario.  

Output as a group: Guidance on how to create the materials iteratively, how to train the facilitators, producing a course handbook for facilitators and students alike, and how to assess and improve.

Output: the sample video and a list of guidelines to give to someone who will produce the videos from the footage.