#summary Instructions on installing SVN or TortoiseSVN and using the SO repository.

= Introduction =

To keep all our files safe and in an organised structure, you will need to install SVN (Linux) or TortoiseSVN (Windows) on your computer.  For the MAC users amongst us... please edit this and tell us how you did it :-) I might get some time later in the weekend - sorry.


= Details =

== For Linux ==


== For Windows ==

=== Installing TortoiseSVN (Windows) ===

Install TortoiseSVN (if you have an existing version of TortoiseSVN, uninstall it and restart your computer before upgrading or there may be problems)

Go to this link for the download [http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads]
  * for 32 bit computers use the link TortoiseSVN-1.6.0.15855-win32-svn-1.6.0.msi
  * for 64 bit computers use the link TortoiseSVN-1.6.0.15855-x64-svn-1.6.0.msi

After clicking on the required link you will be redirected to the 'Sourceforge' web site for the download. A download dialog box will be displyed automatically.

  * Click on save

Once the file has been downloaded double click on the downloaded file. This will start the installation. Within the installation wizard use the following steps

  * Click on the first 'next' button
  * Accept the license option and click the 'next' button
  * Click 'next'
  * Click the 'install' button
  * Click 'next'
  * Restart your computer if prompted to do so


=== Checking out (getting) the Switched On files ===

To get the Switched On files to your computer, you need to "check them out" of the repository.  To do this:

  * Create a new folder anywhere on your computer (perhaps in Documents).
  * Call the new Folder "Switched On" (this actually can be whatever you like).
  * Right click on your new folder and a menu will come up
    * click the SVN Checkout... menu item
      In the "URL of repository" box, type:
      {{{https://so-class2.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/}}}
      (if you want you can replace {{{trunk/}}} with a branch or tag version you want to use, but if you don't know what this is, leave it as {{{trunk/}}})

      You can either select "HEAD revision" to get the latest version with all changes, or you can enter a revision number to get a particular revision (click "Show Log" to see the revisions)
    * Click OK

  * If prompted for your username and password, enter the details you find here:
	[http://code.google.com/p/so-class2/source/checkout]


	(Click "googlecode.com password" to get your Google Code password)

=== Committing your changes ===

Once you've finished creating, editing or deleting files and you want to share them with everyone, you'll need to "commit" them to the repository.  *Please make sure that you only commit working changes to the repository.*  This will ensure that anyone who checks out the files will get a working copy of everything.

To commit your changes:

  * Right click on the "Switched On" folder (or whatever you called it when you created it before).
  * Click "SVN Commit..."
  * Type a message in the top box describing the changes that you have made.
  * Select the changes that you want to commit from the list box.  If you can't remember what the changes are, you can double click on the file to run a "diff".  _This may not be helpful for files like pictures, but it will work for text files._
  * Click Ok to commit the changes.