#summary Create a course on how to create Moodle courses.
#sidebar TableOfContents

Go back to [Workpackages].

= Introduction =
Read WorkpackageDocumentationInstructions

= Requirements =
This workpackage is ultimately rather far-reaching, but the following is an important foundation-laying part.  It would be great to get as specific as possible as we want to use it as soon as we can in India to get an Indian to create a couse using footage we shot of Merja teaching English in the early part of 2009.

== Outline of Aim ==
We will obviously be able to discuss this during the dev weekend Oct 09.

Create the foundation and some example mini tutorials for a short training course in moodle on how to create the video part of moodle training courses. Led by Tim (cos of his vast experience).  Could Farayi help?  The aim is to develop a framework/approach for such a "meta-moodle course," which will train Indians to create video content using footage of lessons taught by experts in India.  It will also contain sample tutorials, which should include video clips, recordings of aspects of the video editing process (e.g. using Camstudio to show how things are done in Adobe video editor cheap edition) and explanatory text.   We'll add questions and peer-based exercises independently to these.  See the following for some clips to give ideas - http://www.switchedon.org/Technical.asp.  Tim and team made great strides last time in how to film lessons and edit them.   Now it needs to be refined and documented - moodle-style, so an Indian can be trained to do the same!

== Specific questions/strategies to be addressed if time ==
  * How record voices of students?
  * How amplify student voices but get rid of noise?
  * Propose techniques add in corrections to the lessons later on (i.e. due to improvements the teacher wants to make to the way the lesson was taught or how students interacted):
  ** if realise at end of class, Merja present to a few students while she and hair look same
  ** could just put up a slide – e.g. of dictionary definition (e.g. of humid)
  ** could at end of following lesson just record her voice and that of students in CCQs (concept-clarification questions) and have slide as visual (cos they will look different)


= Team documentation =

Details of the Moodle test user accounts are here - [Workpackage_VideoAndPerformance_MoodleTestAccounts].
Details of the modifications to Moodle to allow video playback are here - [Workpackage_VideoAndPerformance_MoodleMods].


== Back-burner, not for Oct Dev w/e - Video Playback: Multiple playback synchronisation ==

For investigation of possibilities for this, read the [Workpackage_VideoAndPerformance_VideoPlaybackSynchInvestigation video playback sync investigation]

----

= Workpackage Team Members =
 * Tim Finch (help with Adobe Premiere Integration)
 * Farayi